Create contrib interface (#202)
rh-ecosystem-edge/ztp-pipeline-relocatable: contrib/README.md

# Contrib

The goal of this document is to explain the procedure to add custom features to the spoke clusters.

- [Contrib](#contrib)
- [1. Introduction to contrib template](#1-introduction-to-contrib-template)
- [2. Create contrib feature](#2-create-contrib-feature)
- [3. Create pipeline tasks](#3-create-pipeline-tasks)
- [4. Add tasks to the spoke pipeline](#4-add-tasks-to-the-spoke-pipeline)

# 1. Introduction to contrib template

The specs of a contrib feature is as desribed in the template, this is a basic structure to use as example to implement custom features to be added in the spokes clusters.

```
template
├── deploy.sh
├── manifests

> │   └── 01-template-namespace.yaml

Reviewer: add a a line with" ..." after 01-template-namespace.yaml to give them context if they want to add more yaml files

Author: but the thing is that the template has only those files, and in this section are described the content of the template. What can be done is to add in the second step a tree capture of the new feature to show that is posible to add more manifests

cp -r template deploy-app
```

At this point all the scripts and manifests should be updated with the required instructions to deploy the feature in the spoke cluster.

# 3. Create pipeline tasks

Once the contrib feature is created, the next step is to create the Tekton tasks to call the deploy script. The tasks should be created in the `pipelines/resources/contrib/` folder.
The current template example can be copied to the folder and renamed to `deploy-app`.

```bash
cp pipelines/resources/contrib/contrib-template.yaml pipelines/resources/contrib/deploy-app.yaml
```

After copy the task definition from the template, can be updated with the required instructions to call the previously created deploy.sh script and define the variables and/or config if required.

Be aware to add to the `kustomization.yaml` the name of the task reference name.

# 4. Add tasks to the spoke pipeline

The last step is to add the task to the pipeline. The task should be added to the spoke pipelines file at `pipelines/resources/deploy-ztp-spokes.yaml`. The position of the call to the new task depend of the nature of the feature and the dependencies of the features from other steps in the pipeline.

> The snippet below should be added in the `deploy-ztp-spokes.yaml` updating the values that fit for the desired task run. It is important to be carefull with the value of `name.runAfter`, in here has to be defined the previous task of our run in the pipeline.

Reviewer: typo in name.runAfter???

Author: good catch, this has to be `spec.tasks[].name.runAfter`

```yaml
- name: contrib-template
    taskRef:
      name: spoke-contrib-template
    params:
      - name: spokes-config
        value: $(params.spokes-config)
      - name: kubeconfig
        value: $(params.kubeconfig)
      - name: ztp-container-image
        value: $(params.ztp-container-image)

>       - name: mock

Reviewer: "mock" should be removed as well as you did in the script code. Just to make it easy for them reducing extra params never will be used by them

# Contrib

> The goal of this document is to explain the procedure to add custom features to the spoke clusters.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
The goal of this document is to explain the procedure to add custom steps to the cluster's deployment pipeline. 
```
